abrasive
abrasive: Someone who has an abrasive manner is unkind and rude, wearing away at you in an irritating fashion.

abstinence
abstinence: Abstinence is the practice of keeping away from or avoiding something you enjoy—such as the physical pleasures of excessive food and drink—usually for health or religious reasons.

accentuate
accentuate: To accentuate something is to emphasize it or make it more noticeable.

accolade
accolade: When you give another an accolade, you show them great praise because you highly approve of or respect something that they have done.

acme
acme: The acme of something is its highest point of achievement or excellence.

acuity
acuity: Acuity is sharpness or clearness of vision, hearing, or thought.

adage
adage: An adage is an inherited saying or phrase that has been historically used to express a common experience.

adept
adept: When you are adept at something, you are very good, skillful, or talented at it.

adherent
adherent: An adherent is a supporter or follower of a leader or a cause.

adjunct
adjunct: An adjunct is something that is added to or joined to something else that is larger or more important.

admonish
admonish: When you admonish someone, you tell them gently but with seriousness that they have done something wrong; you usually caution and advise them not to do it again.

adulterate
adulterate: If you adulterate something, you lessen its quality by adding inferior ingredients or elements to it.

advocate
advocate: When you advocate a plan or action, you publicly push for implementing it.

affinity
affinity: When you have an affinity for something, you have a natural liking for or connection to it.

affluence
affluence: Affluence is the state of having a lot of money and many possessions, granting one a high economic standard of living.

aggregate
aggregate: An aggregate is the final or sum total after many different amounts or scores have been added together.

agrarian
agrarian: The adjective agrarian is used to describe something that is related to farmland or the economy that is concerned with agriculture.

alleviate
alleviate: If you alleviate pain or suffering, you make it less intense or severe.

aloof
aloof: When you act in an aloof fashion towards others, you purposely do not participate in activities with them; instead, you remain distant and detached.

amass
amass: When you amass things, you gather them together or accumulate them.

amatory
amatory: When two people have an amatory relationship with one another, they are physically affectionate with and/or in love with one another.

ambulatory
ambulatory: Ambulatory activities involve walking or moving around.

amenable
amenable: If you are amenable to doing something, you willingly accept it without arguing.

amenity
amenity: Amenities are things that make a place comfortable or easy to live in, such as hot water, updated bathrooms, and sports facilities.

amicable
amicable: An amicable person is very friendly and agreeable towards others.

amity
amity: Amity is a peaceful friendship between two parties, particularly between two countries.

amnesty
amnesty: The granting of an amnesty is forgiveness by a government for criminal political offenses.

amorphous
amorphous: Something that is amorphous has no clear shape, boundaries, or structure.

anarchy
anarchy: A state of anarchy occurs when there is no organization or order in a nation or country, especially when no effective government exists.

anoint
anoint: If you anoint someone, you put oil on a part of their body, usually as part of a religious ceremony.

antagonist
antagonist: Your antagonist is an opponent in a competition or battle.

antiquated
antiquated: Something antiquated is old-fashioned and not suitable for modern needs or conditions.

apathy
apathy: Apathy is a lack of interest or unenthusiastic involvement in an activity; there is no effort to change or improve it at all.

apex
apex: The apex of anything, such as an organization or system, is its highest part or most important position.

apparition
apparition: An apparition is something that unexpectedly appears that is either a ghost or ghostly.

appease
appease: When you appease someone, you either satisfy them by being accepting of what they want or make peace with them because of a wrong that you've done to them.

apportion
apportion: When you apportion something, such as blame or money, you decide how it should be shared among various people.

appraisal
appraisal: When you give an appraisal, you evaluate a person or assess the value of something.

arbiter
arbiter: An arbiter acts as a go-between who can settle an argument or provide advice in a dispute.

archaic
archaic: Something that is archaic is out of date or not currently used any more because it is no longer considered useful or efficient.

articulate
articulate: If you describe someone as articulate, you mean that they are able to express their thoughts, arguments, and ideas clearly and effectively.

assimilate
assimilate: When you assimilate an idea, you completely understand it; likewise, when someone is assimilated into a new place, they become part of it by understanding what it is all about and by being accepted by others who live there.

astute
astute: When you describe someone as astute, you think they quickly understand situations or behavior and use it to their advantage.

atrocious
atrocious: An atrocious deed is outrageously bad, extremely evil, or shocking in its wrongness.

austere
austere: Something austere is simple and plain in its style; an austere person is strict and severe with themself.

autonomous
autonomous: An autonomous person makes their own decisions without being influenced by anyone else; an autonomous country or organization is independent and has the power to govern itself.

avarice
avarice: Avarice is the extremely strong desire to have a lot of money and possessions.

aversion
aversion: An aversion to something is a strong dislike for or forceful opposition to it.

banter
banter: Banter is friendly conversation during which people make friendly jokes and laugh at—and with—one another.

barrage
barrage: A barrage of something, such as words or missiles, is an attacking stream that bursts steadily upon someone.

belittle
belittle: When you belittle something, such as an accomplishment, you make it seem little, of small importance, or insignificant.

bellicose
bellicose: If you are bellicose, you behave in an aggressive way and are likely to start an argument or fight.

bequeath
bequeath: When you bequeath something, you hand it down to someone in a will or pass it on from one generation to the next.

bereaved
bereaved: A bereaved person is someone whose close friend or relative has recently died.

besiege
besiege: When a person is besieged, they are excessively bothered or overwhelmed by questions or other matters requiring their attention; likewise, when a city is besieged, it is surrounded by enemy forces.

bigotry
bigotry: Bigotry is the expression of strong and unreasonable opinions without accepting or tolerating opposing views.

blight
blight: Something is a blight if it spoils or damages things severely; blight is often used to describe something that ruins or kills crops.

bolster
bolster: When you bolster something or someone, you offer support in a moment of need.

boon
boon: When you are granted a boon, you are given a special gift or favor that is of great benefit to you.

buttress
buttress: When you buttress an argument, idea, or even a building, you make it stronger by providing support.

cadence
cadence: A cadence is a repeated pattern of movement or sound, such as the way someone's voice rises and falls when reading something out loud.

caliber
caliber: The caliber of a person is the level or quality of their ability, intelligence, and other talents.

callous
callous: A callous person's attitude is cruel, uncaring, and shows no concern for others whatsoever.

candor
candor: Candor is the quality of being honest and open in speech or action.

captivate
captivate: When you are captivated by someone or something, you are enchanted, fascinated, or delighted by them or it.

caricature
caricature: A caricature of someone is an exaggerated drawing or description that is designed to make that person look silly.

carnage
carnage: Mass carnage is the massacre or slaughter of many people at one time, usually in battle or from an unusually intense natural disaster.

catalyst
catalyst: A catalyst is an agent that enacts change, such as speeding up a chemical reaction or causing an event to occur.

cavalier
cavalier: A cavalier person does not seem to care about rules, principles, or other people's feelings, no matter how dire or serious a situation may be.

censure
censure: Censure is written or verbal disapproval and harsh criticism of something that someone has done.

centenary
centenary: A centenary period has lasted one hundred years.

cessation
cessation: The cessation of a process is a stop or halt to it.

chastise
chastise: If you chastise someone, you speak to them angrily or punish them for doing something wrong.

chivalrous
chivalrous: A chivalrous man behaves in a polite, kind, generous, and honorable way, especially towards women.

chronic
chronic: A chronic illness or pain is serious and lasts for a long time; a chronic problem is always happening or returning and is very difficult to solve.

circuitous
circuitous: A circuitous route, journey, or piece of writing is long and complicated rather than simple and direct.

circumvent
circumvent: If you circumvent something, such as a rule or restriction, you try to get around it in a clever and perhaps dishonest way.

clarion
clarion: A clarion call is a stirring, emotional, and strong appeal to people to take action on something.

clique
clique: A clique is a group of people that spends a lot of time together and tends to be unfriendly towards people who are not part of the group.

cloister
cloister: To cloister someone is to remove and isolate them from the rest of the world.

cognitive
cognitive: Cognitive describes those things related to judgment, memory, and other mental processes of knowing.

cohesive
cohesive: A cohesive argument sticks together, working as a consistent, unified whole.

commendation
commendation: A commendation is a giving of praise to someone who has won approval for excellent work.

commune
commune: If you commune with something, you communicate without using words because you feel especially close to or in tune with it.

complacent
complacent: Complacent persons are too confident and relaxed because they think that they can deal with a situation easily; however, in many circumstances, that is not the case.

complement
complement: A complement to something else finishes it or brings it into a fuller state.

compliant
compliant: A compliant person is readily willing to do what is asked of them.

compulsion
compulsion: If you feel a compulsion to do something, you feel like you must do it.

condescend
condescend: When people condescend, they behave in ways that show that they are supposedly more important or intelligent than other people.

condone
condone: If you condone someone's behavior, you go along with it and provide silent support for it—despite having doubts about it.

conducive
conducive: A conducive agent is something that is favorable or helpful in getting something to happen.

confidant
confidant: A confidant is a close and trusted friend to whom you can tell secret matters of importance and remain assured that those secrets will be kept safe.

confluence
confluence: A confluence is a situation where two or more things meet or flow together at a single point or area—usually where two streams join together.

confound
confound: If something confounds you, it makes you feel surprised and confused, often because it does not meet your predefined expectations.

congenial
congenial: A congenial person, place, or environment is pleasant, friendly, and enjoyable.

congenital
congenital: A congenital condition is something someone is born with, such as a character trait or physical state.

conjure
conjure: When you try to conjure up images of the past, you call upon or summon them in your mind by imagining them.

connive
connive: If one person connives with another, they secretly plan to achieve something of mutual benefit, usually a thing that is illegal or immoral.

connoisseur
connoisseur: A connoisseur is an appreciative, informed, and knowledgeable judge of the fine arts; they can also just have excellent or perceptive taste in the fine arts without being an expert.

consign
consign: When you consign someone into another's care, you sign them over or entrust them to that person's protection.

consternation
consternation: Consternation is the feeling of anxiety or fear, sometimes paralyzing in its effect, and often caused by something unexpected that has happened.

contemptible
contemptible: A contemptible act is shameful, disgraceful, and worthy of scorn.

contentious
contentious: When someone is contentious, they are argumentative and likely to provoke a fight.

contiguous
contiguous: Contiguous things are in contact with or near each other; contiguous events happen one right after the other without a break.

contingent
contingent: If something is contingent upon something else, the first thing depends on the second in order to happen or exist.

contrived
contrived: When something is contrived, it is obviously thought about or planned beforehand, although it tries to be passed off as not being so.

convalescent
convalescent: A convalescent person spends time resting to regain health and strength after having a medical problem, such as an illness, injury, or operation.

convoluted
convoluted: Something convoluted, such as a difficult concept or procedure, is complex and takes many twists and turns.

copious
copious: A copious amount of something is a very large amount of it.

corporeal
corporeal: The word corporeal refers to the physical or material world rather than the spiritual; it also means characteristic of the body rather than the mind or feelings.

correlate
correlate: When you correlate two things, you compare, associate, or equate them together in some way.

corrugated
corrugated: Something that is corrugated has parallel ridges, troughs, or grooves in it.

cosmopolitan
cosmopolitan: A cosmopolitan area represents large cultural diversity and people from around the globe; a cosmopolitan person is broad-minded and wise in the ways of the world.

covert
covert: Covert activities or situations are secret and hidden.

credence
credence: Credence is the mental act of believing or accepting that something is true.

crescendo
crescendo: If something, such as a sound, is undergoing a crescendo, it is getting louder and louder or increasing in intensity and is about to reach its peak strength.

crux
crux: The crux of a problem or argument is the most important or difficult part of it that affects everything else.

culinary
culinary: Someone who has excellent culinary skills is able to cook food very well.

curative
curative: Something that has curative properties can be used for curing people's illnesses.

curio
curio: A curio is an object that is very old or unusual; thus, it is viewed as interesting.

cursory
cursory: A cursory examination or reading of something is very quick, incomplete, and does not pay close attention to detail.

curtail
curtail: If you curtail something, you reduce or limit it.

deadlock
deadlock: When a situation, such as an argument or election, is in a deadlock, the participants have come to a complete stop because neither side can proceed further.

debunk
debunk: When you debunk someone's statement, you show that it is false, thereby exposing the truth of the matter.

decadent
decadent: A decadent person has low moral standards and is more interested in pleasure than serious matters.

decimate
decimate: If you decimate something, you destroy a large part of it, reducing its size and effectiveness greatly.

definitive
definitive: A definitive opinion on an issue cannot be challenged; therefore, it is the final word or the most authoritative pronouncement on that issue.

defunct
defunct: Something that is defunct is no longer in existence or does not function.

deluge
deluge: A deluge is a sudden, heavy downfall of rain; it can also be a large number of things, such as papers or e-mails, that someone gets all at the same time, making them very difficult to handle.

demarcation
demarcation: Demarcation is the process of setting boundaries or limits; it is also a line that provides a distinct separation between two things.

demeanor
demeanor: Your demeanor is the way you look and behave, which gives people insight into your character and feelings.

demented
demented: A demented person is not in their right mind; hence, they are crazy, insane, and highly irrational.

demise
demise: A demise can be the death of someone or the slow end of something.

demographic
demographic: A demographic study describes the characteristics of part of a population that is usually used for purposes of marketing.

denigrate
denigrate: If you denigrate something, you criticize or speak ill of it in a way that shows you think it has little to no value at all.

deplete
deplete: When you deplete a supply of something, you use it up or lessen its amount over a given period of time.

derogatory
derogatory: A derogatory statement about another person is highly offensive, critical, uncomplimentary, and often insulting.

destitute
destitute: Someone who is destitute lives in extreme poverty and thus lacks the basic necessities of life.

detrimental
detrimental: Something detrimental causes damage, harm, or loss to someone or something.

devoid
devoid: When an area is devoid of life, it is empty or completely lacking in it.

dictum
dictum: A dictum is a saying that people often repeat because it says something interesting or wise about a subject.

dilapidated
dilapidated: A dilapidated building, vehicle, etc. is old, broken-down, and in very bad condition.

directive
directive: When you are given a directive, you are given an instruction or order that directs you to do something.

disarray
disarray: When you are in a state of disarray, you are disorganized, disordered, and in a state of confusion.

discordant
discordant: A situation or thing that is discordant does not fit in with other things; therefore, it is disagreeable, strange, or unpleasant.

disdain
disdain: You show disdain towards another person when you despise what they do, or you regard them as unworthy of your notice and attention.

disillusion
disillusion: When you disillusion someone, you show that a belief they hold dear is untrue—thereby disheartening and disappointing them.

disincentive
disincentive: A disincentive to do something does not encourage you to do that thing; rather, it restrains and hinders you from doing it.

disinterested
disinterested: Someone does something in a disinterested way when they have no personal involvement or attachment to the action.

disparate
disparate: Things that are disparate are clearly different from each other and belong to different groups or classes.

disparity
disparity: When there is a disparity between two things, they are not of equal status; therefore, they are different or unlike in some way.

dispersal
dispersal: A dispersal of something is its scattering or distribution over a wide area.

disposed
disposed: When you are disposed towards a particular action or thing, you are inclined or partial towards it.

disseminate
disseminate: To disseminate something, such as knowledge or information, is to distribute it so that it reaches a lot of people.

dissident
dissident: A dissident is someone who disagrees publicly with a government, especially in a country where this is not allowed.

dissipate
dissipate: When something dissipates, it either disappears because it is driven away, or it is completely used up in some way—sometimes wastefully.

dissonance
dissonance: Dissonance is an unpleasant situation of opposition in which ideas or actions are not in agreement or harmony; dissonance also refers to a harsh combination of sounds.

dissuade
dissuade: When you dissuade someone, you discourage or prevent them from doing something.

distraught
distraught: If you are distraught about a situation, you are very upset or worried about it.

docile
docile: An animal or person that is docile is not aggressive; rather, they are well-behaved, quiet, and easy to control.

domicile
domicile: Your domicile is the place where you live or your home.

dupe
dupe: When you dupe another person, you trick them into believing something that is not true.

duplicity
duplicity: If you accuse someone of duplicity, you think that they are dishonest and are intending to trick you.

dwindle
dwindle: When an amount of something dwindles, it becomes less and less over time.

edict
edict: An edict is an official order or command given by a government or someone in authority.

edifice
edifice: An edifice is a large or impressive building, such as a church, palace, temple, or fortress.

efficacy
efficacy: Efficacy is the ability or power to produce an expected effect or result.

elicit
elicit: When you elicit a response from someone, you draw it forth or cause it to happen by something you say or do.

elude
elude: If a fact or idea eludes you, you cannot remember or understand it; if you elude someone, you manage to escape or hide from them.

emanate
emanate: Things that emanate come forth from or are emitted by a source.

embankment
embankment: An embankment is a built-up bank or ridge made of earth or stone that supports a road or holds back water.

embodiment
embodiment: An embodiment of something, such as a quality or idea, is a visible representation or concrete expression of it.

emigrate
emigrate: When a person emigrates, they move away from one country—often their native country—to settle in another.

empathy
empathy: Empathy is the ability to understand how people feel because you can imagine what it is to be like them.

emulate
emulate: If you emulate someone, you try to behave the same way they do because you admire them a great deal.

ensue
ensue: When something ensues, it happens after or as a result of another event.

enthrall
enthrall: If something enthralls you, it makes you so interested and excited that you give it all your attention.

envisage
envisage: When you envisage something, you imagine or consider its future possibility.

epitaph
epitaph: An epitaph is an inscription upon a tomb that tells of a person's accomplishments during life.

epitome
epitome: If you say that a person or thing is the epitome of something, you mean that they or it is the best possible example of that thing.

errant
errant: Errant things or people behave in a way that is unacceptable or wrong, such as a missile that travels in the wrong direction or a student who does not follow classroom rules.

esoteric
esoteric: Something esoteric is known about or understood by very few people.

euphoria
euphoria: A state of euphoria is one of extreme happiness or overwhelming joy.

exasperate
exasperate: When you exasperate another person, you annoy or anger them a great deal because you keep on doing something that is highly irritating.

exemplary
exemplary: An exemplary person is one that sets an ideal or praiseworthy example for others to follow.

exorbitant
exorbitant: An exorbitant price or fee is much higher than what it should be or what is considered reasonable.

expedient
expedient: A thing or action that is expedient is useful, advantageous, or appropriate to get something accomplished.

expedite
expedite: When you expedite an action or process, you make it happen more quickly.

explicate
explicate: To explicate an idea or plan is to make it clear by explaining it.

exposition
exposition: An exposition is a detailed explanation or setting forth of an idea, theory, or problem, either in a written or spoken format.

extravaganza
extravaganza: An extravaganza is an elaborate production or spectacular display that is meant to entertain, often in an excessive fashion.

exuberance
exuberance: If you show exuberance, you display great excitement, energy, and enthusiasm.

exude
exude: If you exude a quality or feeling, people easily notice that you have a large quantity of it because it flows from you; if a smell or liquid exudes from something, it flows steadily and slowly from it.

facade
facade: A facade is a false outward appearance or way of behaving that hides what someone or something is really like.

facet
facet: A facet of something is a side, feature, or aspect of it.

fallacy
fallacy: A fallacy is an idea or belief that is false.

fathom
fathom: If you fathom something complicated or mysterious, you are able to understand it.

fiasco
fiasco: If an event becomes a fiasco, it is a complete and embarrassing failure.

fiduciary
fiduciary: A fiduciary relationship arises when one individual has the trust and confidence of another, such as a financial client; subsequently, that trustworthy person is entrusted with the management or protection of the client's money.

figurative
figurative: If you use words in a figurative way, they have an abstract or symbolic meaning beyond their literal interpretation.

fissure
fissure: A fissure is a narrow and long crack or opening, usually in a rock face.

flagrant
flagrant: An action that is flagrant shows that someone does not care if they obviously break the rules or highly offend people.

flamboyant
flamboyant: If someone or something is flamboyant, the former is trying to show off in a way that deliberately attracts attention, and the latter is brightly colored and highly decorated.

fleeting
fleeting: A fleeting moment lasts but a short time before it fades away.

forage
forage: If you forage for things, such as keys or coins, you search for them inside a backpack or purse; when animals forage, they search for food over a wide area.

forlorn
forlorn: A forlorn person is lonely because they have been abandoned; a forlorn home has been deserted.

formidable
formidable: If something is formidable, it is impressive in size, power, or skill; therefore, it can make you feel frightened, alarmed, or in awe because it is so powerful or difficult to deal with.

forte
forte: If something is your forte, you are very good at it or know a lot about it.

fortitude
fortitude: Fortitude is the determination or lasting courage to endure hardship or difficulty over an extended period of time.

frugal
frugal: Someone who is frugal spends very little money—and even then only on things that are absolutely necessary.

fruition
fruition: If something, such as an idea or plan, comes to fruition, it produces the result you wanted to achieve from it.

fugue
fugue: A fugue is a piece of classical music that starts with a simple thematic melody; subsequently, it is developed into a complicated pattern by repeating that melody with different instruments, voices, or keys.

gaunt
gaunt: A gaunt person is extremely thin, often due to an extended illness or a lack of food over a long period of time.

genteel
genteel: A genteel person is well-mannered, has good taste, and is very polite in social situations; a genteel person is often from an upper-class background.

gentry
gentry: The gentry are the elite or upper-class members of a society.

gestation
gestation: Gestation is the process by which a new idea, plan, or piece of work develops in your mind.

gradation
gradation: A gradation is a series of successive small differences or changes in something that add up to an overall major change; this word can also refer to a degree or step in that series of changes.

gradient
gradient: A gradient is an upward or downward slanting slope, the steepness of that slope, or the rate of change of a measured quantity over a given distance.

grandiose
grandiose: When you do something in a grandiose way, it is very showy, impressive, and magnificent.

granule
granule: A granule is a small particle or tiny grain of something.

gratuitous
gratuitous: If something is gratuitous, it is freely given; nevertheless, it is usually unnecessary and can be harmful or upsetting.

gravity
gravity: The gravity of a situation or event is its seriousness or importance.

gregarious
gregarious: A gregarious person is friendly, highly social, and prefers being with people rather than being alone.

grotesque
grotesque: Something grotesque is so distorted or misshapen that it is disturbing, bizarre, gross, or very ugly.

haggard
haggard: Someone who has a haggard appearance looks very tired, worn, thin, and exhausted.

hallmark
hallmark: A hallmark is a symbol, badge, or emblem of something, such as success.

hallowed
hallowed: Something that is hallowed is respected and admired, usually because it is holy or important in some way.

harrowing
harrowing: A harrowing experience is highly distressing, terrifying, or very disturbing.

heretic
heretic: A heretic is someone who doubts or acts in opposition to commonly or generally accepted beliefs.

heterogeneous
heterogeneous: A heterogeneous grouping is made up of many differing or unlike parts.

hierarchy
hierarchy: A hierarchy is a system of organization in a society, company, or other group in which people are divided into different ranks or levels of importance.

idolatry
idolatry: If you believe someone's behavior exhibits idolatry, you think they blindly admire someone or something too much.

illusory
illusory: Something illusory appears real or possible; in fact, it is neither.

imbibe
imbibe: If you imbibe ideas, values, or qualities, you absorb them into your mind.

immaculate
immaculate: Something that is immaculate is very clean, pure, or completely free from error.

imminent
imminent: An imminent event, especially an event that is unpleasant, is almost certain to happen within the very near future.

impassioned
impassioned: When you are impassioned about a cause or idea, you are very passionate or highly emotionally charged about it.

impeccable
impeccable: If you describe someone's appearance or behavior as impeccable, you mean that it is perfect and therefore impossible to criticize.

imperceptible
imperceptible: Something that is imperceptible is either impossible—or very difficult—to notice or perceive.

impertinent
impertinent: If someone behaves in an impertinent way, they behave rudely and disrespectfully.

impervious
impervious: If you are impervious to things, such as someone's actions or words, you are not affected by them or do not notice them.

impetus
impetus: An impetus is a force that influences something to happen or develop more quickly.

impinge
impinge: If something impinges on you, it affects you in some negative way.

implausible
implausible: Something that is implausible is unlikely to be true or hard to believe that it's true.

impromptu
impromptu: An impromptu speech is unplanned or spontaneous—it has not been practiced in any way beforehand.

imprudent
imprudent: When you act in an imprudent fashion, you do something that is unwise, is lacking in good judgment, or has no forethought.

inadvertent
inadvertent: An inadvertent action is not done intentionally; rather, it is an accident that happens because someone is not being attentive to their surroundings.

inalienable
inalienable: An inalienable right is a privilege that cannot be taken away.

inception
inception: An inception of something is its beginning or start.

incessant
incessant: Something that is incessant continues on for a long time without stopping.

incipient
incipient: An incipient situation or quality is just beginning to appear or develop.

incisive
incisive: If an idea or thought is incisive, it is expressed in a penetrating and knowledgeable manner that is clear and brief; additionally, it can demonstrate impressive understanding of related ideas or thoughts.

incoherent
incoherent: Someone who is speaking in an incoherent fashion cannot be understood or is very hard to understand.

incommunicado
incommunicado: If you are incommunicado, you are out of touch, unable to be communicated with, or in an isolated situation.

incongruous
incongruous: Something that is incongruous is strange when considered along with its group because it seems very different from the other things in its group.

inconspicuous
inconspicuous: Something that is inconspicuous does not attract attention and is not easily seen or noticed because it is small or ordinary.

incorrigible
incorrigible: Someone who is incorrigible has bad habits or does bad things and is unlikely to ever change; this word is often used in a humorous way.

incumbent
incumbent: If it is incumbent upon you to do something, it is your duty or responsibility to do it.

indelible
indelible: If someone leaves an indelible impression on you, it will not be forgotten; an indelible mark is permanent or impossible to erase or remove.

indifferent
indifferent: If you are indifferent about something, you are uninterested or neutral about it, not caring either in a positive or negative way.

indigenous
indigenous: Living things are indigenous to a region or country if they originated there, rather than coming from another area of the world.

indignant
indignant: When you are indignant about something, you are angry or really annoyed about it.

indiscreet
indiscreet: Someone who is indiscreet shows lack of judgment, especially because they say or do things in public that should only be said or done privately—if at all.

indoctrinate
indoctrinate: If you indoctrinate someone, you teach them a set of beliefs so thoroughly that they reject any other beliefs or ideas without any critical thought.

indomitable
indomitable: An indomitable foe cannot be beaten.

inept
inept: Someone who is inept is unable or unsuitable to do a job; hence, they are unfit for it.

inert
inert: When something is inert, it has no power of movement or is inactive.

inestimable
inestimable: Something that has inestimable value or benefit has so much of it that it cannot be calculated.

infallible
infallible: If something is infallible, it is never wrong and so is incapable of making mistakes.

infamous
infamous: An infamous person has a very bad reputation because they have done disgraceful or dishonorable things.

infinitesimal
infinitesimal: Something infinitesimal is so extremely small or minute that it is very hard to measure it.

infirmity
infirmity: A patient who is plagued by infirmity is weak in body or ill in health.

inflammable
inflammable: An inflammable substance or person's temper is easily set on fire.

infringe
infringe: To infringe on another person's rights is to violate or intrude upon those rights.

infusion
infusion: An infusion is the introduction or pouring of one thing into another—such as new ideas brought into a workplace or poured purple dye spreading throughout a glass of water.

ingrate
ingrate: If you describe someone as an ingrate, you are criticizing them because they do not express thanks to someone who has helped them—they are ungrateful.

iniquity
iniquity: Iniquity is an immoral act, wickedness, or evil.

injunction
injunction: An injunction is a court order that prevents someone from doing something.

innate
innate: An innate quality of someone is present since birth or is a quality of something that is essential to it.

inopportune
inopportune: When something happens at an inopportune time it is inconvenient or not suitable.

inquisitive
inquisitive: If you are inquisitive, you are eager to learn and highly curious—sometimes too much so.

insidious
insidious: Something that is insidious is dangerous because it seems harmless or not important; nevertheless, over time it gradually develops the capacity to cause harm and damage.

insular
insular: If someone is insular, they are either unwilling to meet anyone outside their own small group or they are not interested in learning new ideas.

insurrection
insurrection: An insurrection is a rebellion or open uprising against an established form of government.

interject
interject: To interject is to insert a comment during a conversation that interrupts its flow.

interminable
interminable: Something that is interminable continues for a very long time in a boring or annoying way.

intermittent
intermittent: Something that happens on an intermittent basis happens in irregular intervals, stopping and starting at unpredictable times.

intertwine
intertwine: When you intertwine two things, you twist them together and thereby interconnect them.

intractable
intractable: Intractable problems, situations, or people are very difficult or impossible to deal with.

intrinsic
intrinsic: An intrinsic characteristic of something is the basic and essential feature that makes it what it is.

intrusive
intrusive: An intrusive person interrupts, interferes, or forces themself in where they are not welcome or permitted to be.

inundate
inundate: If you are inundated with something, you have so much of it that you cannot easily deal with it; likewise, if too much rain inundates an area, it causes flooding.

invulnerable
invulnerable: Someone or something that is invulnerable cannot be harmed in any way; hence, they or it is completely safe or secure.

ironic
ironic: An ironic statement means something the opposite of that which is expressed, sometimes giving humor or a grim twist to the situation at hand.

irrefutable
irrefutable: An irrefutable argument or statement cannot be proven wrong; therefore, it must be accepted because it is certain.

irrevocable
irrevocable: An irrevocable action or decision is impossible to change, reverse, or stop.

jaded
jaded: Someone who is jaded has become bored with or weary of the world because they have had too much experience with it.

jostle
jostle: When you jostle another person, you bump against or push them, usually because you are in a crowded area.

jovial
jovial: Someone who is jovial is in a good humor, lighthearted, and jolly.

labyrinthine
labyrinthine: If you describe a situation or process as labyrinthine, you mean that it is very complicated, involved, and difficult to understand.

lethargic
lethargic: If you are lethargic, you are tired, lack energy, and are unwilling to exert effort.

liaison
liaison: Liaison is the cooperation and exchange of information between people or organizations in order to facilitate their joint efforts; this word also refers to a person who coordinates a connection between people or organizations.

liquidate
liquidate: To liquidate a business or company is to close it down and sell the things that belong to it in order to pay off its debts.

loathsome
loathsome: Something loathsome is offensive, disgusting, and brings about intense dislike.

loquacious
loquacious: Someone who is loquacious talks too much.

lucid
lucid: If someone is lucid, they are able to understand things and think clearly; this adjective also describes writing or speech that is crystal clear and easy to understand.

lucrative
lucrative: If a business is lucrative, it makes a lot of money.

ludicrous
ludicrous: If you describe something as ludicrous, you mean that it is extremely silly, stupid, or just plain ridiculous.

lustrous
lustrous: Something that is lustrous shines in a soft and gentle way by reflecting light.

malady
malady: A malady is a serious illness; it can also be used to refer to serious and widespread problems within a society or an organization.

malevolent
malevolent: A malevolent person or thing is evil due to deliberate attempts to cause harm.

malign
malign: If you malign someone, you say unpleasant things about them to damage their reputation.

mandate
mandate: A mandate is an official order or command issued by a government or other authorized body.

matriarch
matriarch: A matriarch is an older and powerful woman who controls a family, community, or other social group.

meander
meander: When you meander, you either wander about with no particular goal or follow a path that twists and turns a great deal.

medley
medley: A medley is a collection of various things, such as different tunes in a song or different types of food in a meal.

melodramatic
melodramatic: When you are acting in a melodramatic way, you are overreacting to something in an overly dramatic and exaggerated way.

mercenary
mercenary: A mercenary person is one whose sole interest is earning money.

meritorious
meritorious: Someone who is meritorious is worthy of receiving recognition or is praiseworthy because of what they have accomplished.

metamorphosis
metamorphosis: When someone or something undergoes the process of metamorphosis, there is a change in appearance, character, or even physical shape.

meticulous
meticulous: Someone is considered meticulous when they act with careful attention to detail.

milieu
milieu: Your milieu includes the things and people that surround you and influence the way in which you behave.

minuscule
minuscule: Something minuscule is extremely small in size or amount.

misgiving
misgiving: A misgiving is a doubt or uncertainty that you have about something, usually something that you are about to do.

momentous
momentous: A momentous occurrence is very important, significant, or vital in some way.

monochrome
monochrome: A monochrome painting comprises different shades of only one color or is done in black and white.

morose
morose: Someone who is morose is unhappy, bad-tempered, and unwilling to talk very much.

mundane
mundane: Something that is mundane is very ordinary and not interesting or exciting, especially because it happens very often.

neurotic
neurotic: A neurotic person is too anxious or worried about events in everyday life.

nomenclature
nomenclature: Nomenclature is a specialized form of vocabulary that classifies or organizes things in the sciences or the arts into a clear and usable system.

nominal
nominal: Nominal can refer to someone who is in charge in name only, or it can refer to a very small amount of something; both are related by their relative insignificance.

noncommittal
noncommittal: If you are being noncommittal on an issue, you are not revealing what your opinion is and are being reserved on purpose.

nonconformist
nonconformist: A nonconformist is unwilling to believe in the same things other people do or act in a fashion that society sets as a standard.

nostalgic
nostalgic: If you feel nostalgic about a happy time in the past, you are feeling sad when you think about it and wish that things had not changed or long for their return.

notional
notional: Something that is notional exists only as an idea or in theory—not in reality.

noxious
noxious: Something that is noxious is harmful, extremely unpleasant, and often poisonous.

nullify
nullify: To nullify something is to cancel or negate it.

oblivious
oblivious: If you are oblivious to something that is happening, you do not notice it.

obstinate
obstinate: An obstinate person refuses to change their mind, even when other people think they are being highly unreasonable.

omnipresent
omnipresent: Something that is omnipresent appears to be everywhere at the same time or is ever-present.

opaque
opaque: Something is opaque if it is either difficult to understand or is not transparent.

oppress
oppress: If you are oppressed by someone or something, you are beaten down, troubled, or burdened by them or it.

opulent
opulent: Something that is opulent is very impressive, grand, and is made from expensive materials.

ornate
ornate: An ornate object is heavily or excessively decorated with complicated shapes and patterns.

outlay
outlay: An outlay is how much money is spent on something.

pallid
pallid: If someone is pallid, they look very pale in an unattractive and unhealthy way.

paltry
paltry: Something that is paltry is practically worthless or insignificant.

pandemonium
pandemonium: Pandemonium is a very noisy and uncontrolled situation, especially one that is caused by a lot of angry or excited people.

panoramic
panoramic: A panoramic view of a landscape is a sweeping or wide-ranging view of it.

pantheon
pantheon: The best or most highly regarded members of a particular group are known as a pantheon.

paragon
paragon: A paragon is an example of a thing or person at its or their very best.

paranoia
paranoia: If you are afflicted with paranoia, you have extreme distrust of others and feel like they are always out to get you.

paraphernalia
paraphernalia: Paraphernalia is the equipment that one uses to do something or one's personal belongings collected over a period of time.

pare
pare: To pare something down is to reduce or lessen it.

parody
parody: A parody is a humorous imitation of more serious writing or music.

parry
parry: To parry is to ward something off or deflect it.

pastoral
pastoral: A pastoral environment is rural, peaceful, simple, and natural.

pathogen
pathogen: A pathogen is an organism or infectious agent—such as a bacterium or virus—that causes disease.

pathological
pathological: If you have a pathological condition, you are extreme or unreasonable in something that you do.

patriarch
patriarch: A patriarch is a male leader of a family or tribe; a patriarch can also be a man who is the founder of a group or organization.

pedagogy
pedagogy: The art of pedagogy is the methods used by a teacher to teach a subject.

pedigree
pedigree: A pedigree is your list of ancestors or family tree; it can also be the lineage of a purebred animal.

penance
penance: Penance is an act of some kind to right a wrong, usually via some form of self-punishment.

penchant
penchant: If you have a penchant for some activity, you have a strong fondness for it and thus find it enjoyable.

pensive
pensive: If you are pensive, you are deeply thoughtful, often in a sad and/or serious way.

permeate
permeate: When a substance permeates something, it enters into all parts of it.

perpetrate
perpetrate: If you perpetrate something, you commit a crime or do some other bad thing for which you are responsible.

perpetuate
perpetuate: When you perpetuate something, you keep it going or continue it indefinitely.

perplexed
perplexed: When you are perplexed about something, you are completely confused or baffled by it.

personify
personify: When you personify something, such as a quality, you are the perfect example of it.

peruse
peruse: If you peruse some written text, you read it over carefully.

pestilence
pestilence: A pestilence is either an infectious disease that is deadly or an agent of some kind that is destructive or dangerous.

petulant
petulant: A petulant person behaves in an unreasonable and childish way, especially because they cannot get their own way or what they want.

philanthropy
philanthropy: Philanthropy is unselfish support in the form of donating money, work, or gifts to positive social purposes; philanthropy is also overall love for humans in general.

pinnacle
pinnacle: If someone reaches a pinnacle of something—such as a career or mountain—they have arrived at the highest point of it.

pique
pique: When you are piqued by something, either your curiosity is aroused by it or you feel resentment or anger towards it.

pittance
pittance: If you say that you've received a pittance, you mean that you received a small amount of something—and you know that you deserved more.

pivotal
pivotal: Something that is pivotal is more important than anything else in a situation or a system; consequently, it is the key to its success.

plagiarism
plagiarism: Plagiarism is the copying of another person's work, ideas, or words and pretending that you created or thought of them.

plunder
plunder: When you plunder, you forcefully take or rob others of their possessions, usually during times of war, natural disaster, or other unrest.

poignant
poignant: A poignant experience affects your feelings greatly in a painful or deeply emotional way, often causing sadness or pity.

pompous
pompous: If you are pompous, you think that you are better than other people; therefore, you tend to show off and be highly egocentric.

posthumous
posthumous: A posthumous award, often given to an author, is given only after the recipient has already died.

pragmatic
pragmatic: If you handle something in a pragmatic way, you deal with it in a realistic and practical manner rather than just following unproven theories or ideas.

precarious
precarious: A precarious situation or state can very quickly become dangerous without warning.

precept
precept: A precept is a rule or principle that teaches correct behavior.

precipitous
precipitous: A precipitous cliff or drop is very steep or falls sharply.

preclude
preclude: When you preclude something from happening, you prevent it from doing so.

preconception
preconception: A preconception is a conceived notion that you already have, usually in the form of a bias or prejudice of some kind.

precursor
precursor: A first event is a precursor to a second event if the first event is responsible for the development or existence of the second.

predispose
predispose: If someone is predisposed to something, they are made favorable or inclined to it in advance, or they are made susceptible to something, such as a disease.

prerogative
prerogative: Your prerogative is your right or privilege to do something.

pretentious
pretentious: If you are pretentious, you think you are really great in some way and let everyone know about it, despite the fact that it's not the case at all.

primeval
primeval: Something primeval is ancient or belonging to the original development of something.

primordial
primordial: The adjective primordial is used to describe things that existed close to the formation of Earth or close to the origin or development of something.

pristine
pristine: Something that is pristine has not lost any of its original perfection or purity.

profusion
profusion: A profusion of something is a very large quantity or variety of it.

progeny
progeny: Progeny are children or descendants.

prolific
prolific: Something or someone that is prolific is highly fruitful and so produces a lot of something.

prone
prone: If you are prone to doing something, you are likely or inclined to do it.

propensity
propensity: A propensity is a natural tendency towards a particular behavior.

proponent
proponent: A proponent is a supporter or backer of something, such as a cause or other endeavor.

propriety
propriety: Propriety is behaving in a socially acceptable and appropriate way.

protagonist
protagonist: A protagonist is the main character in a play, novel, or real event such as a battle or struggle.

protrude
protrude: Something that protrudes is sticking or pushing outward from something else.

proverbial
proverbial: Something that is proverbial is very well-known, famous, or known for its wisdom.

provincial
provincial: A provincial outlook is narrow-minded and unsophisticated, limited to the opinions of a relatively local area.

provisional
provisional: A provisional measure is temporary or conditional until more permanent action is taken.

pseudonym
pseudonym: A pseudonym is a fictitious or false name that someone uses, such as an alias or pen name.

pugnacious
pugnacious: To act in a pugnacious manner is to act in a combative and aggressive way.

punctuate
punctuate: If an activity is punctuated by something, it is interrupted or emphasized by it at intervals.

pungent
pungent: Something pungent, such as a spice, aroma, or speech, is sharp and penetrating.

quell
quell: To quell something is to stamp out, quiet, or overcome it.

quorum
quorum: A quorum is the smallest number of people in a group, usually just over fifty percent, that is needed to make decisions legally.

radical
radical: A radical solution to a problem goes to the heart or root of it; a radical solution is most often an extreme solution to the problem.

ramble
ramble: To ramble is to wander about leisurely, with no specific destination in mind; to ramble while speaking is to talk with no particular aim or point intended.

ramification
ramification: A ramification from an action is a result or consequence of it—and is often unanticipated.

rampant
rampant: If something bad, such as crime or disease, is rampant, there is a lot of it—and it is increasing in a way that is difficult to control.

rant
rant: To rant is to go on an angry verbal attack.

rapport
rapport: If two people have established a good rapport, their connection is such that they have a good understanding of and can communicate well with one other.

raucous
raucous: A raucous sound is unpleasantly loud, harsh, and noisy.

rebuke
rebuke: When you rebuke someone, you harshly scold or criticize them for something they've done.

reciprocate
reciprocate: If you reciprocate, you give something to someone because they have given something similar to you.

recluse
recluse: A recluse is someone who chooses to live alone and deliberately avoids other people.

recompense
recompense: When you offer recompense to someone, you give them something, usually money, for the trouble or loss that you have caused them or as payment for their help.

recrimination
recrimination: A recrimination is a retaliatory accusation you make against someone who has accused you of something first.

redress
redress: If you redress a complaint or a bad situation, you correct or improve it for the person who has been wronged, usually by paying them money or offering an apology.

redundant
redundant: If something is redundant, it exceeds what is necessary or is needlessly wordy or repetitive.

regression
regression: Regression is the falling back or return to a previous state.

regurgitate
regurgitate: When you regurgitate, you throw up or vomit; this word also refers to simply repeating what someone else has already said so you don't have to put in any thought.

reinstate
reinstate: When you reinstate someone, you give back their job or position that they lost; this word also refers to restoring to use something that was no longer being used.

reiterate
reiterate: When you reiterate what you've just said, you repeat it or say it again.

rejuvenate
rejuvenate: To rejuvenate someone is to make that person feel young and strong again; to rejuvenate something is to make it like new once more.

relegate
relegate: You relegate someone or something if you give that person or thing a less important position than before.

remedial
remedial: A remedial action is intended to improve or correct something that is lacking in some way, such as one's education or health.

remission
remission: When something, such as a disease or storm, is in remission, its force is lessening or decreasing.

remuneration
remuneration: Someone's remuneration is the payment or other rewards they receive for work completed, goods provided, or services rendered.

renege
renege: If you renege on a deal, agreement, or promise, you do not do what you promised or agreed to do.

renounce
renounce: To renounce something, such as a position or practice, is to let go of it or reject it.

repertoire
repertoire: A musician's or dramatist's repertoire is their ready stock or range of pieces that they are able to perform.

replete
replete: Stores that are replete with goods to sell are well-stocked and completely supplied to satisfy many customers.

repose
repose: If you are in a state of repose, your mind is at peace or your body is at rest.

repository
repository: A repository is a safe place, such as a chest or storage area, to keep possessions or other objects.

reprieve
reprieve: A reprieve is a temporary relief from or cancellation of a punishment; it can also be a relief from something, such as pain or trouble of some kind.

reprimand
reprimand: When you are given a reprimand, you are scolded, blamed, or given a talking-to by someone for something wrong that you did.

reprisal
reprisal: A reprisal is something violent or harmful that you do to punish someone for something bad or unpleasant that they did to you.

repute
repute: A person's repute is what others think of them; repute can also refer to someone's standing in society.

residual
residual: Something that is residual is the part that still stays or remains after the main part is taken away.

resilience
resilience: Something or someone that shows resilience is able to recover quickly and easily from unpleasant, difficult, and damaging situations or events.

resonate
resonate: If you say that something, such as an event or a message, resonates with you, you mean that it has an emotional effect or a special meaning for you that is significant.

resounding
resounding: A resounding success, victory, or defeat is very great or complete, whereas a noise of this kind is loud, powerful, and ringing.

respite
respite: A respite is a short period of rest from work or something troubling.

resurgence
resurgence: A resurgence is a rising again or comeback of something.

retention
retention: Retention is the act or condition of keeping or holding on to something, including the ability to remember things.

retinue
retinue: A retinue is the group of people, such as friends or servants, who travel with someone important to help and support that person.

retribution
retribution: Retribution is severe punishment that someone deserves because they have done something very wrong; it especially refers to punishment or revenge that is carried out by someone other than official authorities.

reverent
reverent: When you are reverent, you show a great deal of respect, admiration, or even awe for someone or something.

revile
revile: If something is reviled, it is intensely hated and criticized.

revulsion
revulsion: When you experience revulsion, you feel a great deal of disgust or extreme dislike for something.

rudimentary
rudimentary: Rudimentary skills and knowledge are basic or simple things that are learned early on in life.

salient
salient: The salient qualities of an issue or feature are those that are most important and noticeable.

sanctity
sanctity: The sanctity of something is its holiness or sacred quality.

scaffolding
scaffolding: The scaffolding on a building is that framework or series of platforms used when fixing or building it.

scant
scant: A scant amount of something is a very limited or slight amount of it; hence, it is inadequate or insufficient in size or quantity.

schism
schism: A schism causes a group or organization to divide into two groups as a result of differences in their aims and beliefs.

scourge
scourge: A scourge was originally a whip used for torture and now refers to something that torments or causes serious trouble or devastation.

scuttle
scuttle: When something is scuttled, it is done away with or discarded.

sedate
sedate: If you are sedate, you are calm, unhurried, and unlikely to be disturbed by anything.

servile
servile: If you say that someone is servile, you don't respect them because they are too obedient, too agreeable, and too willing to do anything for another person.

skirmish
skirmish: A skirmish is a minor battle between small army units; it can also be a fight or argument between individuals.

soliloquy
soliloquy: A soliloquy is the act of speaking by a single person, usually an actor in the theater.

sonorous
sonorous: A sonorous sound is pleasantly full, strong, and rich.

spontaneity
spontaneity: Spontaneity is freedom to act when and how you want to, often in an unpredictable or unplanned way.

sporadic
sporadic: Sporadic occurrences happen from time to time but not at constant or regular intervals.

staid
staid: If you are staid, you are set in your ways; consequently, you are settled, serious, law-abiding, conservative, and traditional—and perhaps even a tad dull.

stalwart
stalwart: If you are stalwart, you are dependable, sturdy, and firm in what you do or promise.

steadfast
steadfast: If you are steadfast, you have a firm belief in your actions or opinions and refuse to give up or change them because you are certain that you are doing the right thing.

stifle
stifle: When you stifle someone's creativity or inner drive, you prevent it from being expressed.

stigma
stigma: Something that has a stigma is not socially acceptable; therefore, it has a strong feeling of shame or disgrace attached to it.

stipulate
stipulate: When you stipulate terms, you demand or specify certain things that need to be met before you, in turn, will do something.

strata
strata: Strata are Earth's layers of rock or regions of the atmosphere; they can also be the different social, cultural, and economic levels of a society.

stricture
stricture: A stricture is a rule or condition that imposes restrictions or limits on what you can do.

stringent
stringent: Stringent measures or rules are strict, severe, and controlled in a very tight fashion.

strut
strut: When you strut, you move as though you own the world by walking in a confident and showy fashion.

suave
suave: If you are suave, you are charming and very polite; you are also agreeable, perhaps not always sincerely, to all you meet.

subjective
subjective: A subjective opinion is not based upon facts or hard evidence; rather, it rests upon someone's personal feelings or beliefs about a matter or concern.

subside
subside: When something subsides, it begins to go away, lessen, or decrease in some way.

subsistence
subsistence: Subsistence is the means someone has to support their existence, usually referring to food and shelter.

substantive
substantive: Substantive issues are the most important, serious, and real issues of a subject.

suffrage
suffrage: Suffrage is the right of people to vote in public elections.

sumptuous
sumptuous: Something that is sumptuous is impressive, grand, and very expensive.

superfluous
superfluous: Something that is superfluous is unnecessary; it is more than what is wanted or needed at the current time.

superimpose
superimpose: If two things are superimposed, one is stacked over the other so that both become one.

supersede
supersede: When something supersedes another thing, it takes the place of or succeeds it.

surmise
surmise: If you surmise why something has occurred, you make a guess, offer a possibility, or have a theory about it.

sustenance
sustenance: Sustenance is that which supports life; it usually refers to food or nourishment of some kind or to one's livelihood.

symposium
symposium: A symposium is a formal meeting at which several experts or specialists deliver short talks or discuss a particular subject.

tactile
tactile: Something that is tactile can be physically touched.

taint
taint: To taint is to give an undesirable quality that damages a person's reputation or otherwise spoils something.

tangential
tangential: A tangential point in an argument merely touches upon something that is not really relevant to the conversation at hand; rather, it is a minor or unimportant point.

tangible
tangible: Something that is tangible is able to be touched and thus is considered real.

taxonomy
taxonomy: Taxonomy is the science of classifying plants and animals into an organized system.

tedium
tedium: If you are suffering from tedium, you are bored.

temperamental
temperamental: If you are temperamental, you tend to become easily upset and experience unpredictable mood swings.

tempestuous
tempestuous: A tempestuous storm, temper, or crowd is violent, wild, and in an uproar.

temporal
temporal: Something that is temporal deals with the present and somewhat brief time of this world.

tenet
tenet: A tenet is a belief held by a group, organization, or person.

tenuous
tenuous: Something tenuous is thin, weak, and unconvincing.

tether
tether: A tether is a restraint—such as a leash, rope, or chain—that holds something in place.

thwart
thwart: When you thwart someone's ambitions, you obstruct or stop them from happening.

topical
topical: The adjective topical describes something that is related to a subject of current interest.

topography
topography: The topography of an area is how the land lies, that is, if it is flat, rolling, mountainous, etc.

tortuous
tortuous: Something that is tortuous, such as a piece of writing, is long and complicated with many twists and turns in direction; a tortuous argument can be deceitful because it twists or turns the truth.

transcribe
transcribe: If you transcribe something, such as a speech or other text, you write it or type it in full.

translucent
translucent: A translucent object allows some light to pass through it.

transpose
transpose: If you transpose two things, you make them change places or reverse their normal order.

travail
travail: You refer to a situation or work as travail if it's very tiring, very unpleasant, or very difficult.

treatise
treatise: A treatise is a formal written work that considers and examines a particular subject in a very systematic and extensive way.

tribulation
tribulation: Severe problems, suffering, or difficulties experienced in a particular situation are all examples of tribulations.

trite
trite: A trite remark or idea is so overused that it is no longer interesting or novel.

tumultuous
tumultuous: A tumultuous event or period of time is filled with great excitement, confusion, or violence; a tumultuous reaction to something is likewise very loud and noisy because people are happy and excited.

ubiquitous
ubiquitous: If something is ubiquitous, it seems to be everywhere.

ulterior
ulterior: When you have an ulterior motive, you have a hidden reason for doing something.

ultimatum
ultimatum: An ultimatum is a final statement or offer on an issue; for example, the phrase "Do this, or you can forget it!" is an example of an ultimatum.

unassuming
unassuming: Someone who is unassuming is not boastful or arrogant; rather, they are modest or humble.

unbridled
unbridled: A feeling that is unbridled is enthusiastic and unlimited in its expression.

uncanny
uncanny: Something uncanny is very strange, unnatural, or highly unusual.

uncouth
uncouth: To act in an uncouth manner is to be awkward and unmannerly.

undulate
undulate: Something that undulates moves or is shaped like waves with gentle curves that smoothly rise and fall.

unfeasible
unfeasible: Something unfeasible cannot be made or achieved.

unilateral
unilateral: A unilateral decision is entirely one-sided, involving only one facet of an issue or one country among many.

unkempt
unkempt: An unkempt person or thing is untidy and has not been kept neat.

unlettered
unlettered: If someone is unlettered, they are illiterate, unable to read and write.

unorthodox
unorthodox: An unorthodox opinion is unusual, not customary, and goes against established ways of thinking.

unparalleled
unparalleled: An unparalleled accomplishment has not been equaled by anyone or cannot be compared to anything that anyone else has ever done.

unrelenting
unrelenting: If you are unrelenting in your desire to do something, you stop at nothing until you've done it.

unscathed
unscathed: To come out of something unscathed is to come out of it uninjured.

unwarranted
unwarranted: An unwarranted decision cannot be justified because there is no evidence to back it up; therefore, it is needless and uncalled-for.

unwieldy
unwieldy: Something that is unwieldy is hard or awkward to handle because of the way that it is shaped.

unwitting
unwitting: If you did something in an unwitting fashion, you didn't know that you were doing it; therefore, it was unintentional on your part.

usurp
usurp: When you usurp someone else's power, position, or role, you take it from them although you do not have the right to do so.

utilitarian
utilitarian: A utilitarian object is useful, serviceable, and practical—rather than fancy or unnecessary.

vacuous
vacuous: Something that is vacuous is empty or blank, such as a mind or stare.

vainglorious
vainglorious: If you are vainglorious, you are very proud of yourself and let other people know about it.

validate
validate: When you validate something, you confirm that it is sound, true, legal, or worthwhile.

vanguard
vanguard: Something in the vanguard is in the leading spot of something, such as an army or institution.

vantage
vantage: A vantage is a position, condition, or place that contains a powerful benefit, favored spot, or helpful aid of some kind.

vaporous
vaporous: Something that is vaporous is not completely formed but foggy and misty; in the same vein, a vaporous idea is insubstantial and vague.

variegated
variegated: Something that is variegated has various tones or colors; it can also mean filled with variety.

vehement
vehement: When you have a vehement feeling about something, you feel very strongly or intensely about it.

veneer
veneer: A veneer is a thin layer, such as a thin sheet of expensive wood over a cheaper type of wood that gives a false appearance of higher quality; a person can also put forth a false front or veneer.

veracity
veracity: The veracity of something is its truthfulness.

verbatim
verbatim: If you repeat something verbatim, you use the same words that were spoken or written.

verbiage
verbiage: Verbiage is an excessive use of words to convey something that could be expressed using fewer words; it can also be the manner or style in which someone uses words.

verbose
verbose: Something that is verbose, such as a speech or article, contains too many words.

veritable
veritable: Something that is veritable is authentic, actual, genuine, or without doubt.

verity
verity: The verity of something is the truth or reality of it.

vicarious
vicarious: A vicarious pleasure or feeling is experienced by watching or reading about another person's doing something rather than by doing it yourself.

vigilant
vigilant: When you are vigilant, you are keenly watchful, careful, or attentive to a task or situation.

virulent
virulent: A virulent disease is very dangerous and spreads very quickly.

vivacious
vivacious: If someone is described as vivacious, they are lively and have a happy, lighthearted manner.

volatile
volatile: Something that is volatile can change easily and vary widely.

volition
volition: If you do something of your own volition, you choose to do it because you want to—not because you are forced to.

voracious
voracious: A voracious person has a strong desire to want a lot of something, especially food.

vortex
vortex: A vortex is a force, such as a tornado or whirlpool, that draws things to its center and overwhelms anything caught within it.

wane
wane: If something—such as power, influence, or feeling—wanes, it gradually becomes weaker or less important, often so much so that it eventually disappears.

wastrel
wastrel: A wastrel is a lazy person who wastes time and money.

watershed
watershed: A watershed is a crucial event or turning point in either the history of a nation or the life of an individual that brings about a significant change.

waver
waver: If you waver, you cannot decide between two things because you have serious doubts about which choice is better.

wayward
wayward: If you act in a wayward fashion, you are very headstrong, independent, disobedient, unpredictable, and practically unmanageable.

whimsical
whimsical: A whimsical idea or person is slightly strange, unusual, and amusing rather than serious and practical.

wile
wile: Wiles are clever tricks or cunning schemes that are used to persuade someone to do what you want.

zealous
zealous: Someone who is zealous spends a lot of time, energy, and effort to support something—notably that of a political or religious nature—because they believe in it very strongly.

zenith
zenith: The zenith of something is its highest, most powerful, or most successful point.